2015
11
Wikidata_weekly_summary_#182


Here's your quick overview of what has been happening around Wikidata over the last week.

Discussions
How to add dates with undefined calendar (Julian or Gregorian)? is discussed on Project chat.
Events/Blogs/Press
Wikidata turned 3! The party doubled as the award ceremony for the Land der Ideen price.  I love Wikidata because
Page with state of the project editorial, message from the development team and greetings
Images from the party
Denny and Erik look back at the beginning of the project - the other recordings are still being cut but you can already see the uncut stream here
Presents:
Three presents for Wikidata's third birthday from Amir including artificial intelligence to find vandalism!
Improved query.wikidata.org by the dev team
Preview of the Article Placeholder by Lucie (bachelor student of the dev team)
Special:Nearby by the dev team
Donation of CC World University & School (WUaS) to CC Wikidata to celebrate its 3rd birthday! by Scott_WUaS
Your name in Wikidata Morse code from TMg
Help organize the Wikidata related sessions at Wikimania 2016
Past: Open Access Week
Past: DINI Jahrestagung (slides)
Past: Tehran SFD (video)
Upcoming: ODI Summit
Upcoming: SWAT4LS
Modeling the social network of movie actors of the 1920s and 1930s with Wikidata
Looking for…science fiction movies on the Linked Data Cloud
Other Noteworthy Stuff
Italian Wikipedia matched up nearly all of their articles to items on Wikidata. Congrats!
Bene updated the Tours. Please help translate them here.
The Distributed Game now has a Kian module suggesting statements to add
Andrew made maps of missing images on Wikidata: South Africa, India, Australia, world
Nikki imported dates of birth and death for more than 40,000 persons from Japanese Wikipedia.
Example query: French people with an article on English Wikipedia but not French Wikipedia
Example query: paintings without dimension (add some?)
Example query: people or things born or created on the same day of the year as Wikidata
We passed 15M items.
Happy 10th anniversary to Semantic MediaWiki! We wouldn't be where we are today without you.
All 8,860 fellows of the Royal Society have been matched to Wikidata items
Did you know?
Newest properties: Wikidata property sample, Emporis building complex ID, Orsay Museum artist ID, Politifact Personality Identifier, Fashion Model Directory ID, mix'n'match catalogue ID, ISOCAT id, draft, beam, ionization energy, ITU-T network identifier, mobile country code, frequency of event
Newest External tools: Top missing P31 by number of sitelinks list the items with most sitelinks lacking instance of or subclass of
Development
Worked on birthday presents (Special:Nearby, article placeholder demo system and improvements to query.wikidata.org)
Wes, Stas, Dan and James from the WMF came over to talk through current work around Wikidata and plans for the future
Further poked at editing references at the same time as rest of the statement
Investigated where we can push next to improve performance
Monthly Tasks
Hack on one of these.
Help develop the next summary here!
Contribute to a Showcase item
Help translate or proofread pages in your own language!
Add labels, in your own language(s), for the new properties listed above.

Read the full report · Unsubscribe · Lydia Pintscher (WMDE) 15:55, 2 November 2015 (UTC)



