2017
10
Proposal_on_citation_overkill
I propose that the spirit of the essay on the English Wikipedia "Citation overkill" should apply to Wikidata. If a property already has one or more online high quality sources that actually verify the claim, it is not a good practice to indiscriminately add additional sources. Furthermore, when a high-quality online source is found, citations to unreliable sources such as Wikipedia should be removed.
Citations to paper sources should not be removed unless the editor removing it can actually read the source and determine that either that it doesn't support the claim, or is a less reliable source that the other sources that are also cited.
The property described by source (P1343) is available if it's felt there is a need to list every source that covers the item.
This issue came up at User talk:Magnus Manske#Turn off your bot. I did not start that thread, but did express the view that it isn't appropriate for a bot to add references to a property without considering what references are already present. Jc3s5h (talk) 12:12, 25 October 2017 (UTC)

That thread was started for a different topic (bad date imports because of upstream errors), and then "hijacked" by you for this discussion (after a lengthy, fruitless chat about calendar models below). My thoughts on this:
Wikidata is not Wikipedia. The deliberately build reference mechanisms in Wikidata allow for, and encourage, a large number of references
As long as there is no "ranking" of "high quality sources", this discussion is rather academic, so do we rank VIAF, GND, or EB higher? What about MusicBrainsz?
For the most part, the sources for the references my bot adds have their own Wikidata property. That would qualify them as "high quality" by default, for Wikidata, in this context
I agree that "imported from Wikipedia" should be removed once there are actual, citable sources. But that's a different discussion that doesn't need to be mashed into this one
As you know, I am happy to make reasonable adjustments to the bot, so let's discuss! --Magnus Manske (talk) 12:46, 25 October 2017 (UTC)
I fully support Magnus’ position. A further point to consider is that “citation overkill” is said to complicate reading and editing Wikipedia articles. However, Wikidata is not read in the Wikipedia sense, and also editing works differently (both via machines, which do not struggle with lots of citations). So the main aspect of the Wikipedia “citation overkill” essay does not apply here… —MisterSynergy (talk) 13:13, 25 October 2017 (UTC)
@Jc3s5h: The problem with your proposition is "what is a high quality source" ? Just starting to answer that question can lead to endless discussions in some topics. The real solution is to constraint large data import to an agreement before importation. The problem is not coming from the number of sources added, the problem is coming from the fact that a lot of persons are working in a solitary way and just import data without any preliminary discussion with Wikiproject. Snipre (talk) 14:29, 25 October 2017 (UTC)
Exactly, there is no "citation overkill" in Wikidata. Syced (talk) 04:08, 26 October 2017 (UTC)
In cases where some sources say X and other sources say Y it's often quite useful to have multiple citations at each source. High-quality sources can be wrong and when someone tries to figure out what's actually right it's benefitial to have multiple citations. ChristianKl (talk) 14:46, 25 October 2017 (UTC)
Sometimes the relative quality of sources is not obvious, but sometimes it is. If there's any doubt, and they both say the same thing, by all means keep both.
If a source that is universally esteemed and widely consulted clearly has the wrong information, it would be useful to keep the wrong value and the erroneous source, and give the property a rank of deprecated. Jc3s5h (talk) 15:05, 25 October 2017 (UTC)
You don't know beforehand which sources will turn out to be wrong. There's a moment when multiple values get entered and there's a time to reconcile the different statements. When that moment comes it's useful to have multiple sources at which you can look to make the decision which values you want to depricate. ChristianKl (talk) 15:42, 25 October 2017 (UTC)
I have a fair idea which sources I regard as reliable, and on the whole I would not regard other databases as high quality sources (there are databases which are pretty good, but also plenty which are not). - Brya (talk) 16:49, 25 October 2017 (UTC)
I see no problem with a handful of citations on a single datapoint. Overuse of described by source (P1343) - which says "there is some information on this topic in an external source" but without specifying what it actually sources - seems much less useful. Andrew Gray (talk) 18:24, 25 October 2017 (UTC)
I second the view that automatically adding of sources just because they are there isn't helpful, well-considered it might be. The bot has also added sources that have already been there like here and added dates where the original sources states it with "circa" which the bot did not respect. --Marsupium (talk) 23:17, 25 October 2017 (UTC)
That is indeed a case where, essentially, the same citation is duplicated, and the others should be removed (I will look into that). However, this is a special case, a technical artefact, not "too many sources" as was the original point of this thread.
As for the "ca.", I work of the description I got for Mix'n'match, which might have come from an older/abbreviated version (see "catalog description" here). I have taken great care to avoid "ca." and the like from the descriptions I have, but I may have faulty ones in some cases. If there are systematic problems with a specific site (e.g., RKD artists) in my dataset, I can deactivate it for bot use. However, again, a specific fault with this specific bot operating on a specific dataset is not the topic of this thread, which is much larger. --Magnus Manske (talk) 07:44, 26 October 2017 (UTC)
I doubt it is only about "a specific fault … on a specific dataset". The task you try to tackle is giant and has flaws in many respects. I do not think that it makes sense to ask: "Do we want to import all dates of birth and death collected for Mix'n'match to Wikidata?" Indeed this depends on the specific source, its quality and on the specific problems which arise when trying to scrape it in an automated way. That can't be separated from the question about the number of sources for a statement. Most will agree I guess that we do not want the myriads of newspaper articles and school books that mention the end date of the Second World War to source the corresponding statement. We need a discussion on where to draw the line. For this case, an "opt-in" is as much possible as an "opt-out". BTW: I think there wasn't a bot request, but some kind of announcement when the bot started, thanks in advance to anyone who can provide a link! --Marsupium (talk) 14:56, 28 October 2017 (UTC)

